IELTS academic writing task 1 lecture hi
my name is Jay and I'm going to show you
a template that you can use in your
writing task 1 the template satisfies
the criteria that the examiners are
looking for it will save you time and it
will increase your scores if you
memorize the template before test day
you will know exactly what to do as soon
as the examiner says you can start
writing this lecture is also going to be
interactive so get out a piece of paper
and a pen and follow along with me by
the end you will have written a top
scoring writing task 1 and by writing it
you will have helped to memorize the
template this is what we're going to
write it has four sections the first
section is a short introduction the
second section is a general description
of the trends the third section is a
comparison of the data and the last
section is a single sentence summary
we'll look at each part one by one part
one introduce the graph introducing the
graph is incredibly simple all you need
to do is to rewrite the first sentence
of the task description in your own
words here is an example task
description it's the box of text that
sits on top of the graph the box
comprises two sentences you need to
focus on the first sentence which says
the graph shows the availability of
various sweeteners in the USA from 1966
to 2012 pause the video and rewrite this
sentence it should only take you a
minute or two
we'll then look at my answer
so the original sentence says the graph
shows the availability of various
sweeteners in the USA from 1966 to 2012
I've rewritten this in my own words to
say the given line graph represents how
much sweetener was available in the
United States over a 45 year period if
we compare mine with the original you
can see that I've just changed the words
using similar words also called synonyms
shows represents the availability of
various sweeteners how much sweetener
was available in the USA in the United
States from 1966 to 2012 over a 45 year
period my sentence says exactly the same
thing as the original but in different
words that's how you should introduce
your graph part to describe general
trends in this part you need to describe
the general trends of the graph don't
use the y-axis yet but you can use the
x-axis in other words describe the
trends over time try and take a bird's
eye view of the overall trends over the
time period look at the total the Green
Line what's the overall trend over the
period look at refined cane and beet
sugars the blue line what's the overall
trend over this period look at corn
sweeteners the orange line what's the
overall trend over the period look at
honey and edible syrups the yellow and
gray lines what's the overall trend over
the period pause the video and spend a
couple of minutes describing the trends
over the time period ask yourself do the
trends increase do they decrease
they fluctuate do they remain stable
don't use the y-axis just yet here's
what I wrote in total sweetener
availability increased until around the
year 2000 before it receded the amount
of refined cane and beet sugars
decreased and then plateaued corn
sweeteners increased consistently until
1982 and then steadied before beginning
to fall from around 1999 the
availability of honey and edible syrups
remained relatively low and stable over
the period let's now look at part three
part three compare the data now we want
to compare the lines very simply we want
to say the blue line did this well the
orange line did this and the yellow line
did this
well the grey line did this we want to
use both the time period and the pounds
per person to say what happened and when
in other words use both the y axis and
the x axis so I want you to compare
refined cane and beet sugars with corn
sweeteners and I want you to compare
honey with edible syrups how do they
compare over time use both the y axis
and the x axis pause the video and have
a go I'll show you my answer in a minute
okay here's what I wrote let's look at
this sentence by sentence from 1966 to
1985 refined cane and beet sugars and
corn sweeteners followed a very
different trajectory the sugars started
at around a hundred pounds per person
while corn sweetener started at around
eighteen pounds per person by 1985
however the
two sweeteners met at approximately 62
pounds from there they diverged again
before meeting again in 2007 at around
63 pounds in contrast to sugars and
sweeteners honey and syrups barely
changed they started at around 15 pounds
each and by the end of the period were
almost the same okay getting there
that's the toughest part and it requires
a bit of practice now let's look at the
final part part four summarize in a
single sentence in the last part you
need to write a single sentence summary
how you do this is you take a step back
and you look at the graph in total and
ask yourself what happened overall take
a minute and write a single sentence
answering this question for this graph
you may want to focus on the green line
total
here's what I wrote sweetener
availability in the United States
increased until around 1998 before
decreasing moderately recap ok so just a
little bit more to go now let's look at
the whole thing put together it's a
hundred and seventy eight words and it
does everything that the examiners want
we wrote an introduction by rewriting
the task description in our own words
then we described the general trends
over time in part three we compared
relevant data by selecting two lines and
showing how they moved and in this part
we use numbers from the y-axis finally
we wrote a single sentence summary
questions cool so we have a couple of
questions from our e to users the first
question is from syed from Saudi Arabia
he asks in part one do you have to
change every single word or can you use
some words from the task description
good question the answer is that you
should try to use synonyms to rewrite
the task description into your own words
but sometimes there aren't synonyms so
it's okay to borrow a word or two from
the task description the next question
is from da visa from India she asks how
do we know what lines to compare in part
three good question
this depends on the graph you need to
select trends that would be interesting
and relevant to compare it's really up
to you to decide this but you should be
able to see visually the best lines to
compare eetu language calm this template
will help you to achieve a top score for
more practice materials lessons feedback
tips and strategies check out e2
language calm thanks for watching
you